®
Getting Started
Guide
G e tt i n g S t a r te d G u i d e
Welcome to EIN Presswire, Ever yone ’s Internet News Presswire®, the world’s
#1 press release distributor for SMBs and SMEs.
EIN Presswire is a ser vice of news tech company.
Newsmatics Inc .
, a Washington D.C .-based
The Getting Star ted Guide is designed to answer many of your initial questions.
If you have other concerns not covered in this guide, please visit the customer ser vice team by email or for phone numbers in your location.
contac t page
to reach the
Customer ser vice representatives can guide you through using EIN Presswire, interpreting
distribution repor ts, viewing invoices, and much more. They are available across mul tiple time
zones 18 hours per day, Monday to Friday.
Ever yone ’s got a stor y to tell and EIN Presswire will help you spread the word.
You’ ve made the right choice - now let’s get star ted!
The ser vice was perfec t as far as I am
concerned. The day after I issued the
press release, I received an invitation for a
radio inter view on America Tonight ,
which has 2 .9 million listeners.
Malcolm Duff Singer-songwriter
Super fast and fantastic repor ting. Sooo
much faster than manual submission!
The repor ts are ver y useful and beyond
what we expec ted.
Karl Alexander
Marketing & Automation Manager
SJA Real Estate
1
Last Updated 03/07/2024
Co n te n t S u b m i s s i o n & R ev i ew Pro c e s s
Content moderators review all press releases prior to distribution.
For all new customers, there is a one - time account verification check which may take up
to two business days.
After the check is complete and for all other customers who have already been checked,
it generally takes about two hours to review your release prior to distribution.
Press releases are reviewed during business hours.
Press releases must meet cer tain criteria to ensure that any information we disseminate is
accurate, trustwor thy, validated, newswor thy, and appropriate for audiences of all ages. Learn
here
more about our editorial policy .
We may reach out for more information or clarification so please keep an eye on your inbox.
Press release credits are only deduc ted once the press release has been distributed.
Content moderators focus on the account information you’ ve provided AND the content .
Details matter. They look for sufficient information to identif y you as the authorized person
to submit the release and whether or not the content is suitable for distribution according
to .
our editorial guidelines
Ke y P o i n t ®
Content is moderated during business hoursNew
customers undergo a one - time verification check that takes up to two business daysAfter
the verification check , the review process takes about two hours during business hoursIf
you’ ve been asked to provide more information the review process will take longer Content
moderators focus on editorial compatibility and account informationNot
all content meets our guidelines. If yours doesn’t , you may ask for a refund
EIN Presswire most definitely delivered like
they promised. The staf f is super friendly and
ver y professional. Good stuf f. I love it . Keep up
the fantastic work . Thank you. A job well done.
Kentrell Parker
CEO of The Art Within You
We’ ve been using EIN Presswire for some
time and we are happy with the ser vice
provided. The site is easy and user-friendly,
and the cost of PR distribution is ver y
competitive. Thank you for helping us share
the news quickly and without hassle.
Ilya Kushnirskiy
Fine Art Shippers
2
Last Updated 03/07/2024
Wr i t i n g a Pre s s R e l ea s e
You’re here because you have news to share.
If this is your first time using a press release distribution ser vice, below are a few things you
should know when writing a press release. For those of you who are seasoned PR
professionals this will be a refresher.
What exa c tly is a press release?
Perhaps you have experience writing blog posts, news ar ticles or content for websites or
publications. That’s great! However, a press release is a completely dif ferent piece of content .
Press releases have a specific format and are usually shor ter than news ar ticles.
Example press release ( ): see the full release
Strong headline
Meaningful subtitle
Engaging, authentic ,
concise content
includes hyperlinks
Quotes interest the
reader and journalists
might use them
Boiler plate text clearly
indicates the organization
and its mission
Clear contac t information
including your social
media handles
Following the above example and adherence to the editorial guidelines
will not
only help get you write a great release, it can also speed up the review process.
3
Last Updated 03/07/2024
E d i t s , B e f o re a n d A f te r D i s t r i b u t i o n
Typos sometimes happen. There ’s no need to panic .
After the content moderators review your press release for adherence to our guidelines, it will
be distributed immediately, if that’s what you’ ve chosen, or at the time and date selec ted.
At any point prior to distribution, you may rever t the release to draft mode and edit your
release. After you save your changes, you will have to resubmit it for review.
If you find a typo after distribution, we are happy to make minor text edits for you. These edits
will appear on the distribution points we control. However, some of our third-par ty publishing
par tners will not update the content once published.
Retrac ted press releases are not subjec t to a credit reimbursement and may not be removed
from our third-par ty publishing par tners.
Ke y P o i n t ¼
Before distribution, you can make edits in draft mode and resubmit for reviewº
After distribution, we can make minor edits for you such as fixing typosº
Edits made after distribution will only show on press releases within our network
EIN Presswire continues to be
the standard for press release companies.
The timeliness of ser vice, strong suppor t
from staf f and quality of reach keeps me
coming back again and again. Makes my job
much easier as a PR exper t in San Diego.
Thank you EIN!
Dr. Rob Garcia
Shift Magazine
The entire process of posting a press
release to EIN presswire was clear and
easy - totally painless! Ver y happy with
ease of use and distribution channels.
Kathleen Conologue
CFO, STEM Coding Lab, Inc.
4
Last Updated 03/07/2024
Understanding Your Distribution Report
Distribution repor ts show where the press release is published.
You c an fi nd a distribution report f or each press rel ease y ou issue on My P ress Rel eases. The report
will al so be em ail ed to y ou within about tw o hours after distribution. Distribution reports are
av ail abl e as a PDF. T rack ing l ink s c an be downl oaded as a CSV file or view ed as an RSS f eed.
Distribution Repor t Over view :
Major Newswires & Search Engines:
Quick links show the pick up and indexing of your press release on major search engines and
newswires. Search engine resul ts will grow as time passes.
Boosting with Social Media:
Pushing your press release out on social media expands both the reach of the release and
increases the potential for engagement .
Industr y Newswire Highlights:
Industr y newswires are used by industr y professionals, journalists, government officials and many
others. Newswire inclusion maximizes the reach of your release.
Media Reprints:
Media reprints highlight the pick-ups and full page syndication points of your release at the time
the distribution repor t was sent to you.
News Databases:
News databases are subscription based, widely used platforms that are crucial for engaging with
journalists, professionals and industr y insiders.
World Media Direc tor y :
Press releases are sent to targeted publications within the World Media Direc tor y. It also provides
contac t details for each media and you can reach out to them direc tly.
We’re ver y happy with EIN. More than that , I
must say that whenever I meet a star tup
founder, I tell them to buy a pack of press
releases with you guys. It’s an essential tool to
create visibility for star tups and works much
better than plenty of other, less ef fec tive, more
expensive tools.
Roy Cohen
Behavidence
Not only are we a fan of EIN Presswire’s
professionalism and the remarkable reach of
the press releases they disseminate for us, but
after using their more expensive competitors,
it’s the customer experience they provide that
keeps us coming back , week after week ,
month after month, year after year.
Andy Gesner
HIP Video Promo
5
Last Updated 03/07/2024
U n d e r s t a n d i n g Yo u r D i s t r i b u t i o n R e p o r t
Unique proprietar y distribution keeps customers returning.
In addition to the distribution points that match top tier competitors, you get something no other
distribution ser vice of fers°
â : are news sites focused on niche audiences and topicsÔ
Affinity Group Publications
â : has been a leading global newswire ser vices since 199
EIN Newswires
Perspec tif y
â : allows PR professionals to understand the bias of news sources
Millions of news consumers and industr y professionals rely on Affinity Group Publications, EIN
Newswires and Perspec tif y for their news.
These are targeted and unique distribution points that can’ t be found elsewhere.
Key PointÏ
Press releases are republished on major news sites, indexed in search engines, hit the
newswires and go out on high- quality proprietar y distribution point¦
Distribution repor ts are available within about two hours after releas«
The distribution repor t will be emailed to you and appear on on My Press Release¦
Views, opens and readerships numbers are not counted because they are highly unreliable due
to bots, scripts, and traffic manipulation technique¦
You can view a
sample distribution repor t.
I’ ve been using EIN Presswire to provide
information regarding eHACCP.org’s HACCP
training updates and new releases for about 3
years. I’ ve seen my URL rank consistently on the
first page of Google and Bing searches. I’ll
continue using EIN Presswire and would
recommend them to anyone.
Stephen Sockett
eHACCP.org
Dollar for Dollar, EIN Presswire has the best
syndication network across all the presswire
ser vices. I’ ve researched and seen them all,
and many ser vices of fer a frac tion of the
same outlets for much more cost . That’s why
I keep coming back to EIN Presswire.
Michael Stover
MTS Management Group
6
Last Updated 03 /07/2024
Q u i c k L i n ks a n d U s e f u l R e s o u rc e s
Useful Resources:
EIN Presswire Video Tutorials:
Learn ho w t o u pload a press release , vie w y our dis tri bution re por t ,
and unders tand m ore a bout EIN P ress wire dis tri bution .
FAQs:
Based on customer feedback , you’ll find an answer to almost an y ques tion .
Editorial Guidelines:
Check out the guidelines to understand the approach to content q uali ty,
le g al and poli tical releases , and what consti tut es e x cluded con t en t .
My Newsroom Setup & Use Guide:
Find out how to make the most of your Newsroom wi th
e xplana tions , ti ps and e x amp les .
Pricing Guide:
Learn about distribution packages, see a list of features and pricing.
World Media Direc tor y :
One of the world's leading online media direc tor y maintained by EIN
P ress wire and free for y ou t o use .
AI Press Release Generator:
A free EIN Presswire ser vice that helps you create stunning press
releases that ge t y ou no ticed .
My Account LinksU
My Press Releases -
www.einpresswire.com/press-releases$
Invoices -
www.einpresswire.com/account/ invoiceJ
RSS Feeds -
www. einpr esswir e.com/my-rss$
Create a Release -
www.einpresswire.com/press-releases/edi
Newsroom -
www.einpresswire.com/account/newsroo2
Newsletters -
www.einpresswire.com/my-newsletters$
Image Librar y -
www.einpresswire.com/press-releases/ images$
Email Preferences -
www.einpresswire.com/email_preferenceJ
Distribution Repor ts -
www.einpresswire.com/press-releaseJ
Account Information -
www.einpresswire.com/account/edit
I needed to get out a press release quickly,
I recommend you to my clients on a regular
and looked into several press release
basis. Because I work with a lot of star tups
companies. I found that EIN Presswire had
that just don’t have any budget yet , they
lean on our PR firm to get the news out .
an easy- to -use web interface and their costs
were ver y competitive. I definitely intend to
Your ser vice is one of our favorite tac tics for
use EIN Presswire again.
getting that done. Thanks.
Bob Zeidman
Rick Grant President, Zeidman Consulting
RGA Public Relations
7
Last Updated 03/07/2024
S t i l l H ave Q u e s t i o n s? We ’ re H e re to H e l p
Questions? Need more information?
Customer ser vice representatives are ready to answer your inquiries across mul tiple time zones,
18 hours per day, Monday to FridayT
U In the USA call: +1 (202) 335-393t
U In Europe call: + 44 78 2202 393t
U Send an email:
www.einpresswire.com/contac ¼
U More about distribution:
www.einpresswire.com/distributioË
U Pricing & Comparison Char t:
www.einpresswire.com/pricingµ
U Meet the Team and How-To videos:
www.einpresswire.com/video - tutorialª
U Have high-volume distribution needs? !
Let’s talk
Follow us!
We regularly post about distribution best prac tices, how to get the most out of your account and
more. You’ll also be the first to know about special discounts and of fers!
F
L
X
I
8
Last Updated 03/07/2024
